---
layout: post
title:  "New Paper: Aripiprazole induced gut toxicity"
date:   2025-03-26 00:00:01 +0000
categories: paper
---

My first first-author publication is now out!

My paper [Oral administration of aripiprazole to Drosophila causes intestinal toxicity ][ari-gut] is now available online at the journal Disease Models and Mechanisms!

All pharmaceutical  drugs have side-effects, but the mechanisms behind these side-effects are not always well understood. Aripiprazole is a commonly prescribed antipsychotic drug, and which causes gastrointestinal side-effects. How these side-effects come about is unclear. Here, we used a *Drosophila* model system to investigate the mechanisms behind the gut dysfunction caused by aripiprazole. We found that in flies, like in humans, aripiprazole causes gut dysfunction, altering faecal output and gut barrier integrity. Aripiprazole has previously been identified as an inhibitor of mitochondrial complex I. Consistent with this, guts of flies fed the drug show impaired mitochondrial function, and increased production of reactive oxygen species. These were shown to activate the JNK pathway, causing cell death. This pathway is conserved between humans and *Drosophila*. We found that genetically reducing ROS levels, or reducing them using antioxidant supplementation, was sufficient to reduce cell death and gut dysfunction. Overall, these findings demonstrate the value of using simple model systems for investigating drug toxicity, and provide a potential mechanism to explain the intestinal side-effects of aripiprazole.

[ari-gut]: https://journals.biologists.com/dmm/article/18/3/dmm052180/367470/Oral-administration-of-aripiprazole-to-Drosophila